# ftp-deployment-for-gatsby-to-laravel
An FTP script for uploading Gatsby project to Laravel based website.

> *This script is intended to be used **only** by a website powered by Laravel but serves GatsbyJS for its view.*

The script will log every important transaction and creates backup for the online project. It also expects that your website's backend is using Laravel that serves static Gatsby project on main root. This is a rare case of using Laravel and Gatsby together. This happens when you want to serve a Gatsby page but also build a web API using Laravel without separating the project. By default, the script replaces the `index.blade.php` with the Gatsby index page. ***Feel free to modify the script according to your need.***

### Requirements:

1. Gatsby Project
2. NodeJS
3. FTP Client Module (`npm i -g ftp`)
   > https://www.npmjs.com/package/ftp
4. Yargs Argument Parsing (`npm i -g yargs`)
   > https://www.npmjs.com/package/yargs
5. FTP Server
6. Laravel Application

### Usage:

1. Manually executing the script
   1. Build your Gatsby project.
   2. Place the script in level with the `public` folder generated by your Gatsby build..
   3. Change the configuration of the script.
   4. Run `node deploy` on your project.
2. With CI/CD
   1. On the `script` list of your CI configuration, add `node deploy` after building the Gatsby project.
   > The script supports argument based FTP configuration which you can use if you don't want to show your FTP configuration on the script. Change the configuration depending on your preference.
   2. Save.
   
____

***I'm not responsible for any loss of data caused by using this script. This script is straightforward and review/modification is highly recommended if you are going to use this since multiple projects have different setup and configuration. Contact me using e-mail at edceliz01@gmail.com if you have any questions.***
